In this video, we're going to see how to compute the image of a vector when we're given a linear transformation in terms of its standard matrix.
So here I have written down a linear transformation from R^4 to R^3 given by this inter matrix.
And we're going to compute T of three one negative one, negative one.
Now the key idea is to remember that the definition of the standard matrix is that the columns are given by the images of the standard basis vectors.
So that first column two one minus one. That's the image. That's what T does to the vector one zero zero zero.
And that second column, three zero one is when ti does to the vector.
Zero one zero zero. And so on and so forth. So all we have to do is take our vector three one minus one minus one to figure out what T does to it.
We'll just write it as a linear combination of the standard basis vectors and then take advantage of linearity.
So this is three times our first standard basis vector.
Plus, the second standard basis vector, minus the third standard basis vector.
Minus the fourth standard basis vector. And now, because T is linear, it respects addition and respects scalar multiplication.
So this is three times T One zero zero zero.
Plus, T of the second standard basis vector. Minus the third standard basis vector.
And minus the fourth standard basis vector. Now, T of one zero zero zero.
That's the first column of our standard matrix. So this is three times two one minus one two zero one zero zero.
That's T of our second standard basis vector. That's just the second column of our standard matrix.
So I have three zero one. We'll subtract off T of the third standard basis vector, so that's the third column of our standard matrix.
And similarly subtract off the fourth column of the standard matrix. Now we just do a little bit of arithmetic.